In the Biographical Sketches contained in this volume, I have pursued
the same system as in my two former Catalogues, of the Galleries of
Hinchingbrook and Longleat,—devoting especial attention to the immediate
members, or to personages in any way connected with the family in
question. In the historical characters, I have purposely made the
details of public and official life (which are elsewhere recorded)
subservient to those of a private and domestic nature, although it is
obvious that in some cases the two cannot be disentangled. In fact, I
have preferred painting my portraits in the costume worn at home, rather
than in robes of office and suits of armour. I have refrained from
mentioning the innumerable authorities to which I have had recourse, in
the British Museum and other Public and Private Libraries, from a dread
of adding to the weight of a volume already, I fear, too bulky. For help
in my labours, I am indebted to the noble owner of Panshanger himself,
for the able papers on Charles James Fox, Lord Melbourne, and the
brothers De Witt,—while the author of that delightful memoir, ‘Fifty
Years of my Life,’ so well known to the reading public, contributed the
interesting sketch of his ancestor, the first Earl of Albemarle.

The good services of Mr. Elliot Stock procured me the assistance of
Monsieur Charles Rueles, the learned Keeper of Manuscripts in the Royal
Library at Brussels, when at a loss for information regarding the
Marquez de Leganes, a commander little spoken of by English writers. On
the kindness of friends my impaired sight has compelled me to rely for
details of dress and descriptions of many of the portraits, and, on this
account, my especial thanks are due to a fair member of the Cowper
family. In other respects, the work, it may be ‘a poor thing, is mine
own,’ and, although in some respects arduous and difficult, I have found
it on the whole an undoubted labour of love.